In this lecture, we are going to look at a few definitions that you must be familiar with.
We need to look at packages, repositories and the package manager.
These three items are all closely related and work together.
A package refers to the individual components that make up a full featured software program.
Let me give you an example on anyone to desktop installation.
The software program files.
Zila is made up of various packages.
These packages work together to build the program files, as you can see files.
It depends on numerous smaller packages called dependencies.
With Lennix, you have what is called a package manager that will find, download and install the required
dependencies for you.
Repositories or servers which contain sets of packages or packages are stored in what's called a repository.
Each in the next distribution takes care of its own repositories.
The package manager will check the repository to see if a package you are requesting is available.
It will check all the required dependencies and present you with a list of what's going to be installed
on your server.
It's fast, efficient and very reliable.
A package manager is used to install software on your server in an organized manner.
A package manager is similar to a mobile app store.
The package manageable download and install the packages from its software repositories.
The package manager will also perform updates for all the installed packages.
The Ubuntu package manager is called Advanced Package Manager, or EPT.
You need take no steps in setting any of this up.
When your Linux server distribution is installed, the package manager is installed by default and as
long as your server has an Internet connection, the package manager will connect to the repositories,
thereby allowing you to install and update packages as well as update the server operating system.
I must point out that you can also add unofficial repositories to your server.
I don't recommend this as you may introduce possible vulnerabilities and security problems.
I recommend you only install the packages you need and only from the official Ubuntu repository keeping
the packages installed on your server updated is one of the most important steps in server security.
The command used to configure packages is called EPT Get.
There are three variations of the target command.
You must know when it comes to keeping your server software updated.
These are update, upgrade and just upgrade your first update and then you upgrade.
Neither of them automatically runs the other bits.
Look at each command in more detail.
Update is used to synchronize the package.
Files from the sources this package lists contains all the information related to what is installed
on your server, such as version numbers, binaries and dependencies.
Upgrade is used to install the newest versions of all packages currently installed on the system.
No installed packages are removed and no new packages are installed.
The upgrade command will compare what versions are installed on your server and compare it to the package
list.
You will then be presented with a list of packages that can be upgraded.
Just upgrade is used to upgrade packages that target cannot upgrade.
These are COL upgrades or other big changes that may require a reboot to take effect.
If you receive a message stating the following packages have been kept back, this is an indication
that you need to run the test upgrade command.
You may need to reboot your server after the dust upgrade, command, install, remove and purge.
You use the advanced package manager apt to install packages on your server.
The package manager will check the repository to see if the package you are requesting is available.
It will also check the dependencies and present you with a list of what's going to be installed on your
server.
EPT is also used to remove.
Packages from your server get installed is used to add or install packages on your server, EPT get
remove is used to remove packages from your server target purge is also used to remove packages from
your server.
The difference between target, remove and get purge removed does not remove modified configuration
files, whereas purge does.
If during the upgrade process you are prompted to overwrite a configuration file that you have modified,
you will be presented with an option to keep the modified version.
Always keep the modified version.
Otherwise you will lose the changes you have made to that file.
This is a list of some of the target commands we will be using.
They are straightforward and throughout the course we will be using all of these commands.
So for now, make a note of them.
We will be using them shortly.
In this lecture, we looked at a few definitions as well as the Boonchu package manager, Apte.